---
layout: post
title:  "Building a CLI"
date:   2016-10-16 04:57:36 +0000
---


It took me a while, but I finally finished my CLI for my first assessment! The CLI is a web scraper, but that's not the focus of the assessment. This first assessment is focused on Object-Oriented Programming (OOP). When I started this project, I felt pretty comfortable with OOP. Still, I feel like I have a better understanding of OOP, and I even feel more comfortable using pry. Most of my challenges came from actually getting the data from the website or getting it to output the way I wanted it to. For example, I thought I was storing data into an array, but in fact I was not and this prevented me from actually operating on that data. My list of data was displaying, but I could not select an item from the list. My `.find` method kept returning an error. Using pry and another CLI as an example, I was able to figure out why my data was not being stored in an array. I made edits and confirmed that I could now select an item from the list. The next challenge was displaying details about the list item. I'm not sure which part of this project was most frustrating: getting the list, or getting the details. I was scraping details and storing them into an array (having learned my lesson from the list fiasco), but I could not get just one item. Trying to display details resulted in *every* detail being displayed. I had tried to model my code after the CLI I had been working with, but I couldn't figure out why it wasn't working. I needed my `.find` method to somehow also pick out the corresponding detail for the list item, but I was at a loss as to how. When I dug deeper into the actual code of the CLI I had been using, I saw the issue: this code was relying on `.yml` files, not the live website.

It was at this point I switched to looking at a different CLI, and this one was much easier to understand. I could see how all of the important information was being stored into an array, but more importantly I learned how to improve my OOP. I had figured out how to store my data into arrays, but I was storing them inefficiently. Perhaps I could have eventually made what I had written work, but it would have been messy. Instead, I created instance variables (`@name`, `@bio`) for the data I needed, scraped data that would be assigned to those instance variables in a separate method, and then stored all of this data into a class variable (`@@all`). With all of the information in one place, I could now get my `.find` method to work as intended. Inside my CLI file, I could finally display an item with its corresponding information!

This entire process took me a few weeks to complete - much longer than it probably should have. I reached points where I was getting pretty frustrated and needed to take a break, and I was also dealing with personal issues that made focusing difficult. I feel that I owe a huge debt of gratitude to my instructor for this project. She didn't give me answers or explicitly tell me how to fix my code, but she did check my understanding of what I was trying to do and of OOP principles. This helped me to verify that I was on the right track and gave me insight into what I needed to do. It was great to have somebody to bounce ideas off of and to think out loud with. Had I reached out to my instructor sooner, I probably would have been done with this project at least a week ago. It's definitely a lesson in not trying to do everything yourself. It's nice to want to figure stuff out without assistance, but it's not always the best way to go. I think this is especially true in this field, where collaboration is key.

Now that I've completed the project, I feel very satisfied with the code I have created and I feel like I have a solid grasp of OOP. On to the next assessment!
